I'm going to give you over 10 years of
web design knowledge in just 7 minutes
no fluff just the good stuff are you
ready let's
go you can basically boil all the design
knowledge that you need to build great
websites down to just three things
layout color and typography probably
heard it said before that people read or
engage websites in somewhat of an F
pattern so they start reading at the top
left and then they go right they come
back they go down on the left they go
right they come back and they go down on
the left until they're done but here's
the truth that's actually bogus it's
outdated information that web designers
just kind of keep repeating until so
everybody thinks it's true I might have
been one of those web designers and for
that I apologize the truth is is that
people engage with websites in all sorts
of different patterns and forcing them
to pay attention in an F pattern might
actually cause them to miss important
information so what do you do instead
you use something called visual
hierarchy you've probably seen an image
before where there's this big bold line
of text that says you're going to read
this first and the smaller line
underneath it that says then you'll read
it next and then this really tiny line
that's all the way in the Le hand corner
that says and you'll read this last that
is visual hierarchy you make the most
important elements of a section the
biggest and the Bold this and then for
each other element that isn't maybe as
important you turn down the volume you
make it more inconspicuous for your call
to action or buttons you want to make
sure that they have a high degree of
contrast from everything else around
them why because the main thing we want
people to do on a website is click a
button if it doesn't stand out it's
going to make it harder to do that and
please I beg of you stop using ghost
buttons what are ghost buttons they're
buttons that just have an outline
without a solid background the problem
is that people don't see them and they
don't click on them for colors every
website should have a color palette that
matches the brand of the website owner
here's a few important things to
consider when it comes to color the
first thing is accessibility if you pick
colors that make it difficult to read
text or tough to see elements clearly
it's going to be hard for users to
engage you want to pick colors that have
a high enough contrast that even users
with visual impairments are still going
to be able to see things clearly how do
you know if a contrast is high enough
something that I like using is a website
called
coolers.com called the
60310 rule basically what this means is
that about 60% of your website should
use your dominant colors things like
Grays or blacks and whites 30% you
should reserve for your brand colors and
then another 10% you want to use
something for an accent so helping
things really stand out that's a great
thing to use for like your calls to
actions or your buttons is this a hard
and fast rule that you absolutely have
to use every single time no but it's a
good principle to stick with especially
when you're first getting started then
there's typography typography is one of
the most underrated design elements of a
website but it has a massive impact on
the readability and user experience
thankfully there's a ton of great
options when it comes to fonts you've
got serifs you've got sand serifs you've
got handwritten fonts you've got scripts
you've got display you've got monospace
and it goes on and on there are three
main text elements to consider for your
website you've got your H1s or your main
headers and this should be the biggest
most prominent text on the page this is
going to describe what the entire page
is all about then you've got your H2 or
your subheadings these act as ways to
divvy up the rest of the page and guide
a user's attention then finally you've
got your paragraph text or your P tags
you don't want to use really decorative
text for this it might look cool but it
kills readability but here's the thing
good design without good conversion
practices doesn't actually help your
clients I designed a website a while
back for a client and the result was way
better than their old website it was
clean it was Modern it was chef's kiss
the problem was when we launched it
sales plummeted why did that happen it's
because I tried to make it look pretty
instead of focusing on good conversion
practices if your design doesn't
consider conversion it's useless to your
clients so what our good conversion
practices good conversion is all about
reducing friction for users you want to
make it stupid easy for the users to
find what they're looking for and to go
through and either buy a product or sign
up for a service and that's done through
Clarity you want to be crystal clear
about who the company is or the person
is who owns the website and what the
user is supposed to do next why they
should even care you also do it through
scannability people aren't reading
websites they're scanning through it so
you need to set things out in such a way
that people can bounce around and make
decisions and then finally you want the
website to be motivating it's not just
enough to be pretty you actually need to
speak to the heart of the user speak to
the thing that's driving them to say yes
or no but overall you want to design for
the Right audience not for yourself and
not for your client it doesn't matter if
you love the design it doesn't even
matter if your client loves the design
who does it matter for the website
visitors so do a little research who's
actually using this website fonts colors
layout choose them based on the target
audience and not personal preference
finally make sure that you never stop
learning web designers don't age like
fine wine okay we age like a loaf of
bread left on the counter we go stale
unless we keep learning the web design
industry is changing fast and it's going
to continue to do so what worked just 5
years ago might not work today it might
not work in the next 5 years and if you
don't challenge yourself and stay
updated you're going to fall behind will
AI take all of our
jobs probably not but will AI take lazy
web designer jobs absolutely the only
way to stay valuable is to keep learning
keep adjusting and keep leveling up and
you might be asking yourself that's all
well and good but what do I need to do
if I'm getting started today thankfully
I've got another video that I'm going to
link to that's going to answer just
those questions make sure that you like
this video if it was helpful and be sure
to subscribe so that you don't miss
another episode and don't forget if you
don't quit you win